README.md, before:

# Meteor Search

## WHY

People want to find content. Good ***search is essential***.

## What

Full-text search. Using ***Native*** MongoDB Commands.

Example app:

![Searchr screens](http://i.imgur.com/hoTv9Yx.png)


## How

### Step 1 - *Get* "*Real*" MongoDB

By default, Meteor starts up its own instance of MongoDB, this does not have
full-text indexing/search, so you need to ***go native***.

If you don't already have a "Real" installation of MongoDB on your system,
install it with **HomeBrew**:

```
brew update
brew install mongodb
```

If you're not using Mac ...

- Linux: http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-linux/
- Windows? *ouch*... http://www.geekyprojects.com/tutorials/how-to-use-virtualbox-tutorial/

#### Startup MongoDB with textSearchEnabled=true

In a terminal/console window startup up your mongod databse with the following command:

```
mongod --dbpath ~/code/meteor-search/.meteor/local/db --setParameter textSearchEnabled=true
```
**Notes**: 
- **--dbpath** speficies where your data is. Your data directory will be different, 
my project is at **~/code/meteor-search** (replace for what ever yours is)
- **--setParameter** lets you enable full-text search at run time. (you can do this in a 
config file if you prefer see: http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/configuration-options/)


> Confirm its working by visiting: http://localhost:28017/ (in your browser)

![MongoDB Running Locally](http://i.imgur.com/EyKEe6l.png)

**More info** on enabling text search: http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/enable-text-search/


#### Start Meteor with the "Real" MongoDB

Because we are using "real" Mongo we need to specifiy it when starting meteor.
(This only applies while you are developing in production you would set an ENV

)
```
MONGO_URL="mongodb://localhost:27017/meteor" meteor
```

If the app starts up ok, its ***game on***! <br />
(otherwise *submit a bug* to this repo and I will wil try to assist you!)


### Step 2 - Get (Test) Content 

#### Seed Content (From Twitter Streaming API)

When you boot this app it will access the Twitter Streaming API and fetch 
thousands of tweets for you to search through (*locally*).
(leave it running for a few minutes and you will get 10k posts. 
Or a few hours if you want hundreds of thousands to stress test search)

If you want ***LOTS*** of content very quickly, change the KEYWORD to **news**.

If you want ***INSANE*** amounts of (*noisy*) data 
(to symulate *high volume*), use:
```
var KEYWORDS = "katie, justin, kim, beyonce, miley, Obama, 1DWorld, OMG, FML, breaking, news";
```

### Step 3 - Index the Text (in MongoDB)

Once you have some content you need to ensure that MongoDB is indexing it.

Thankfully this is quite *easy* with MongoDB's **ensureIndex** method.
In our case we are simply going to index the post's **body** field:

```
db.posts.ensureIndex( { body: "text" },{ background:true } );
```

![RoboMongo Showing Search Index Run](http://i.imgur.com/gSUQliP.png)

> There's a **startup** script that does this automatically for you at: **server/indexes.js**

Depending on how much data you have already inserted, this may take some time...
I had 92k posts (tweets) in my DB when I ran it and it took less than 10 seconds!

More detail on **ensureIndex**: 

- http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/core/index-text/
- http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/method/db.collection.ensureIndex/


#### Query to Search for a Keyword

```
db.posts.runCommand( "text", { search: "paypal" } )
```

While this works fine in RoboMongo:

![RoboMongo Search Results](http://i.imgur.com/KYW2jYc.png)


Meteor does not support the **runCommand** method:

![Meteor Hates runCommand](http://i.imgur.com/x62G6N4.png)

So ... 

>> http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17159626/implementing-mongodb-2-4s-full-text-search-in-a-meteor-app/18258688#18258688


### Step 4 - Highlighting Hashtags (Clickable)

I wrote a simple regular expression to turn hashtagged keywords into links.
Instead of polluting the raw data with links (and bloating our records)
We finde/replace the #keywords at render time (client-side) using 
a Handlebars template helper method:

```
// place this code in your main.js or inside an Meteor.isClient block
Handlebars.registerHelper('highlight', function(text) {
  var hashtagPattern = /\s*(#\w*)/gi, 
    link = "/search/", 
    m, match, matches = [], t, url ='';

  // initial check for hashtag in text
  if(text.indexOf("#") !== -1) {   

      // find all #keywords (that have hashtags)
      while ( (match = hashtagPattern.exec(text)) ) {
        matches.push(match[0]);
      }

      // replace any #keywords with <a href="/search/keywords">#keywords</a>
      for(var j=0; j < matches.length; j++) {
        m = matches[j].replace(/\s/g, "");
        // console.log('match',m);
        url = link+m;
        url = url.replace('#',"").toLowerCase(); // remove hashtag for lookup
        t = " <a class='hashtag' href='"+url+"'>"+m+"</a> "; // replace with
        replace = new RegExp("\\s*("+m+")", 'gi');

        text = text.replace(replace, t);
      }
    }
  return text;
});
```

**Note**: the *link pattern* is *hard-coded* `/search/:keywords` and method is not 
chainable so *far from perfect*! Send a pull-request if you improve on it. :-)



## Notes

### Setting Up Full Text Search on MongoHQ

MongoHQ does **not** have (full) text indexing **enabled by default**. 

![MongoHQ Shows Error When Creating Index](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/BkUH5CrCIAAcfRx.png "MongoHQ Error")

But they were quick to help me when I asked for it: 
https://twitter.com/nelsonic/statuses/451758108285489152 

![MongoHQ Enables Text Search](http://i.imgur.com/AlUvCQw.png "Text Search Enabled")

You will need to set up your indexes *manually* with a command <br />
(either in your Mongo Client - We use RoboMongo - or the Web Interface)

![MongoHQ Showing Text Index on Posts.body](http://i.imgur.com/cHIzS4B.png "MongoHQ Full Text Index")

Once that is set up you are good to go. 


### Searching Through Your Posts

In RoboMongo (or what ever MongoDB Client of your choice) use the following
command to search through your collection (on the field(s) you specified as searchable)

```
db.COLLECTION.runCommand( "text", { search: "KEYWORDS" } );
// e.g:
db.posts.runCommand( "text", { search: "learn" } );
```

![RoboMongo Shows Results of runCommand](http://i.imgur.com/FLjDGl3.png "Search Query Results")


### Iron Router

This project uses Iron Router for url routing. <br />
If you are not familiar with it 
(you *should* be if you're serious about using Meteor), read:

- Tutorial: http://www.manuel-schoebel.com/blog/iron-router-tutorial
- Docs: https://github.com/EventedMind/iron-router
- [Discover Meteor](https://www.discovermeteor.com/) Uses Iron Router extensively. 
Read it for a good step-by-step intro.
- Advanced: https://properapp.com/meteor/advanced-routing-in-meteor-navigation-state-w/#.Uz8BIS9dVX4

```
mrt add iron-router
```
See the **routes.js** file for more detail on how I've wired this up to
accept request in the form: `http://yoursite.com/search/:keywords`


### Research

- MeteorPedia Full-text Search: http://www.meteorpedia.com/read/Fulltext_search
- Using Elastic Search with MongoDB: https://github.com/matteodem/meteor-easy-search
- Meteor (MongoDB) Full-text search: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14567856/full-text-search-with-meteor-js-and-mongodb (non-answer!)
- Lunr JS "Simple" full-text search in your browser: http://lunrjs.com/ 
(but our data is in MongoDB so not much use...)

#### Deploying to Heroku?

- Heroku ENVironment variables (in Node.js Apps): https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/nodejs-support

Commit message:

adds rudimentary posts count to header to show content volume

README.md, after:

# Meteor Search

## WHY

People want to find content. Good ***search is essential***.

## What

Full-text search. Using ***Native*** MongoDB Commands.

Example app:

![Searchr screens](http://i.imgur.com/hoTv9Yx.png)


## How

### Step 1 - *Get* "*Real*" MongoDB

By default, Meteor starts up its own instance of MongoDB, this does not have
full-text indexing/search, so you need to ***go native***.

If you don't already have a "Real" installation of MongoDB on your system,
install it with **HomeBrew**:

```
brew update
brew install mongodb
```

If you're not using Mac ...

- Linux: http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-linux/
- Windows? *ouch*... http://www.geekyprojects.com/tutorials/how-to-use-virtualbox-tutorial/

#### Startup MongoDB with textSearchEnabled=true

In a terminal/console window startup up your mongod databse with the following command:

```
mongod --dbpath ~/code/meteor-search/.meteor/local/db --setParameter textSearchEnabled=true
```
**Notes**: 
- **--dbpath** speficies where your data is. Your data directory will be different, 
my project is at **~/code/meteor-search** (replace for what ever yours is)
- **--setParameter** lets you enable full-text search at run time. (you can do this in a 
config file if you prefer see: http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/configuration-options/)


> Confirm its working by visiting: http://localhost:28017/ (in your browser)

![MongoDB Running Locally](http://i.imgur.com/EyKEe6l.png)

**More info** on enabling text search: http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/enable-text-search/


#### Start Meteor with the "Real" MongoDB

Because we are using "real" Mongo we need to specifiy it when starting meteor.
(This only applies while you are developing in production you would set an ENV

)
```
MONGO_URL="mongodb://localhost:27017/meteor" meteor
```

If the app starts up ok, its ***game on***! <br />
(otherwise *submit a bug* to this repo and I will wil try to assist you!)


### Step 2 - Get (Test) Content 

#### Seed Content (From Twitter Streaming API)

When you boot this app it will access the Twitter Streaming API and fetch 
thousands of tweets for you to search through (*locally*).
(leave it running for a few minutes and you will get 10k posts. 
Or a few hours if you want hundreds of thousands to stress test search)

If you want ***LOTS*** of content very quickly, change the KEYWORD to **news**.

If you want ***INSANE*** amounts of (*noisy*) data 
(to symulate *high volume*), use:
```
var KEYWORDS = "katie, justin, kim, beyonce, miley, Obama, 1DWorld, OMG, FML, breaking, news";
```

### Step 3 - Index the Text (in MongoDB)

Once you have some content you need to ensure that MongoDB is indexing it.

Thankfully this is quite *easy* with MongoDB's **ensureIndex** method.
In our case we are simply going to index the post's **body** field:

```
db.posts.ensureIndex( { body: "text" },{ background:true } );
```

![RoboMongo Showing Search Index Run](http://i.imgur.com/gSUQliP.png)

> There's a **startup** script that does this automatically for you at: **server/indexes.js**

Depending on how much data you have already inserted, this may take some time...
I had 92k posts (tweets) in my DB when I ran it and it took less than 10 seconds!

More detail on **ensureIndex**: 

- http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/core/index-text/
- http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/method/db.collection.ensureIndex/


#### Query to Search for a Keyword

```
db.posts.runCommand( "text", { search: "paypal" } )
```

While this works fine in RoboMongo:

![RoboMongo Search Results](http://i.imgur.com/KYW2jYc.png)


Meteor does not support the **runCommand** method:

![Meteor Hates runCommand](http://i.imgur.com/x62G6N4.png)

So ... 

>> http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17159626/implementing-mongodb-2-4s-full-text-search-in-a-meteor-app/18258688#18258688


### Step 4 - Highlighting Hashtags (Clickable)

I wrote a simple regular expression to turn hashtagged keywords into links.
Instead of polluting the raw data with links (and bloating our records)
We finde/replace the #keywords at render time (client-side) using 
a Handlebars template helper method:

```
// place this code in your main.js or inside an Meteor.isClient block
Handlebars.registerHelper('highlight', function(text) {
  var hashtagPattern = /\s*(#\w*)/gi, 
    link = "/search/", 
    m, match, matches = [], t, url ='';

  // initial check for hashtag in text
  if(text.indexOf("#") !== -1) {   

      // find all #keywords (that have hashtags)
      while ( (match = hashtagPattern.exec(text)) ) {
        matches.push(match[0]);
      }

      // replace any #keywords with <a href="/search/keywords">#keywords</a>
      for(var j=0; j < matches.length; j++) {
        m = matches[j].replace(/\s/g, "");
        // console.log('match',m);
        url = link+m;
        url = url.replace('#',"").toLowerCase(); // remove hashtag for lookup
        t = " <a class='hashtag' href='"+url+"'>"+m+"</a> "; // replace with
        replace = new RegExp("\\s*("+m+")", 'gi');

        text = text.replace(replace, t);
      }
    }
  return text;
});
```

**Note**: the *link pattern* is *hard-coded* `/search/:keywords` and method is not 
chainable so *far from perfect*! Send a pull-request if you improve on it. :-)



## Notes

### Setting Up Full Text Search on MongoHQ

MongoHQ does **not** have (full) text indexing **enabled by default**. 

![MongoHQ Shows Error When Creating Index](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/BkUH5CrCIAAcfRx.png "MongoHQ Error")

But they were quick to help me when I asked for it: 
https://twitter.com/nelsonic/statuses/451758108285489152 

![MongoHQ Enables Text Search](http://i.imgur.com/AlUvCQw.png "Text Search Enabled")

You will need to set up your indexes *manually* with a command <br />
(either in your Mongo Client - We use RoboMongo - or the Web Interface)

![MongoHQ Showing Text Index on Posts.body](http://i.imgur.com/cHIzS4B.png "MongoHQ Full Text Index")

Once that is set up you are good to go. 


### Searching Through Your Posts

In RoboMongo (or what ever MongoDB Client of your choice) use the following
command to search through your collection (on the field(s) you specified as searchable)

```
db.COLLECTION.runCommand( "text", { search: "KEYWORDS" } );
// e.g:
db.posts.runCommand( "text", { search: "learn" } );
```

![RoboMongo Shows Results of runCommand](http://i.imgur.com/FLjDGl3.png "Search Query Results")

Search results returned in **0.15 seconds** when I had **327k posts** in 
the collection:

![Post Count](http://i.imgur.com/scpYgMb.png "Post Count 327k")


### Iron Router

This project uses Iron Router for url routing. <br />
If you are not familiar with it 
(you *should* be if you're serious about using Meteor), read:

- Tutorial: http://www.manuel-schoebel.com/blog/iron-router-tutorial
- Docs: https://github.com/EventedMind/iron-router
- [Discover Meteor](https://www.discovermeteor.com/) Uses Iron Router extensively. 
Read it for a good step-by-step intro.
- Advanced: https://properapp.com/meteor/advanced-routing-in-meteor-navigation-state-w/#.Uz8BIS9dVX4

```
mrt add iron-router
```
See the **routes.js** file for more detail on how I've wired this up to
accept request in the form: `http://yoursite.com/search/:keywords`


### Research

- MeteorPedia Full-text Search: http://www.meteorpedia.com/read/Fulltext_search
- Using Elastic Search with MongoDB: https://github.com/matteodem/meteor-easy-search
- Meteor (MongoDB) Full-text search: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14567856/full-text-search-with-meteor-js-and-mongodb (non-answer!)
- Lunr JS "Simple" full-text search in your browser: http://lunrjs.com/ 
(but our data is in MongoDB so not much use...)

#### Deploying to Heroku?

- Heroku ENVironment variables (in Node.js Apps): https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/nodejs-support
